We're moving on to server side rendering.
So this is the only point we're gonna
be writing a little bit of Node.js,
specifically we're gonna be writing
a server side component to this.
It'd be helpful if you knew a little
bit of Node.js, not required.
Node.js will not be the emphasis
of what's going on here.
If you need Node.js,
I like brushing up on that.
Frontend Masters has a plentiful
library of great Node content.
Again, I really liked
Scott Moss's courses.
I just like Scott, he's a good guy.
Except if he beats me at Apex Legends,
then he's a jerk.
Okay, so we're done with
the code splitting part of this,
we're gonna restart our application.
So go ahead and do that again.
Basically, we're gonna cp- R this,
so I'm just gonna cp -R
this 12-portals-and-refs, and
I'm gonna make another copy of it.
And this one we'll just call ssr or
something like that.
So go into your project,
you're gonna run npm install.
It'll take a second.
People like to ask me where do
I get this thing for my prompt.
This is called Spaceship, so
if you just Google Spaceship prompt,
it'll tell you how to set that up.
Okay, so
I'm gonna open this in my code editor.
And now you can see again,
none of my code splitting
stuff is in here, or
moment, then thank God.
Okay, so let's talk about what
server side rendering is,
why you'd wanna do it,
all those kind of things.
So performance in general is kind of
a front and center sort of concern for
us as frontend developers.
In particular, I'm gonna say more so
than other disciplines of engineering,
and I've been across the entire stack.
I've been in all the way from DevOps and
SRE,
all the way to being
basically a design engineer.
And now I'm a PM, so
I've been all over that stack, right?
Frontend engineering has a peculiar
kind of performance engineering.
Well, we're doing a ton with
human psychology, right?
There's actual performance, which is like
how fast can your Kubernetes cluster munge
and spit back out those requests, right?
That's one kind of performance.
But there's another kind of performance,
of how fast can a human comprehend what
you're trying to communicate to them.
One of the ways that we can do
that is server side render.
We can basically render out our React app
preemptively and send that to the user, so
that immediately they see something.
And there's a lot of research that's gone
into that the human will see something,
comprehend it,
make a decision what they wanna do, and
then they'll go to click on it.
And in general, we can be fast enough as
frontend engineers to show them something,
then they're gonna make a decision.
And by the time they get to
clicking on it, we can catch up and
make our app interactive, right?
A big part of that is
server side rendering.
Now this is helpful for
a couple of reasons.
One is just because I have
a brand new iPhone, right?
And so my iPhone is pretty fast
at rendering out webpages, right?
But if you're on a legacy Android device,
or even just old iPhones, right?
That process can be really
slow on a low end 2G device.
I kind of alluded to the other
thing that's important.
We talked about code splitting, which
is able to split your packages across
the wire there, so that you can load
things kind of more progressively.
But with server side rendering, we're
able to sometimes load things in smaller
packets upfront so
people can see things sooner.
Then we load the big JavaScript
payload and then things happen, right?
By making that critical path
of time to first meaningful
render as short as possible, then we
can get perceived higher performance.
Cuz web performance is great, but
the thing that actually matters is what
the hell does a user think, right?
We can have the time to
first paint be zero, but
if your first paint is loading,
who cares, right?
It doesn't matter unless your user
is actually getting meaningful
things in front of them.
I used to give a performance talk.
And one of the things that I made people
do in the middle of this talk is I
loaded linkedin.com.
At the time I worked at LinkedIn,
so I was kind of self-shaming.
And I made them watch it on a 2G
network on a low-end device,
it takes over a minute.
And I made everyone put their phones away,
I made everyone be super quiet and
just stare at the screen.
As like, I want you to feel
this pain in your heart, right?
And I made people, and I actually
got in trouble, I worked there, and
it was totally worth it.
But that's what we're doing here with
server side rendering is we're kind of
trying to fit our app the best
way to human psychology possible.
And I will say that server side rendering
won't always solve this for you.
Sometimes it can make things worse, so
that's why measuring is important, right?
Time to paint, time to first meaningful
paint, time to first bit, these are all
kind of brushstrokes on a canvas of what
the performance of your application is.
You have to take a look
at it holistically, okay,
that's kind of like a overall spiel and
just web performance in general.